Total: 30

Ans:
a d c a a 
d c d a a
d b a d a
d b a a a
a c d b c
a a b a d

Question:

1. The overriding reason why households and societies face many decisions is thata. 	resources are scarce.b. 	goods and services are not scarce.c. 	incomes fluctuate with business cycles.d. 	people, by nature, tend to disagree.2. Which of the following is not subject to scarcity?a) 	water    
b) 	steel    
c) 	diamonds    
d)	none of the above3. The adage, "There is no such thing as a free lunch," means(a) 	even people on welfare have to pay for food.(b) 	the cost of living is always increasing.(c) 	people face tradeoffs.(d) 	all costs are included in the price of a product.4. Which of the following examples does not illustrate the principle represented by the adage, "There is no such thing as a free lunch"?a. 	Melissa needs to pay her rent and her electric bill.b) 	Kevin must choose between buying a new flat screen television and buying his textbooks for this semester.(c) 	Robert must decide between studying for his psychology exam and working at his part-time job.d. 	Lisa can spend her money on a new smart phone or on a weekend trip.5. Economists use the word equality to describe a situation in whicha. 	each member of society has the same income. b. 	each member of society has access to abundant quantities of goods and services, regardless of his or her income.	c. 	society is getting the maximum benefits from its scarce resources.d. 	society's resources are used efficiently.6. Efficiency means thata.
society is conserving resources in order to save them for the future.b.
society's goods and services are distributed equally among society's members.c.
society's goods and services are distributed fairly, though not necessarily equally, among society's members.d.
society is getting the maximum benefits from its scarce resources.7. Which of the following phrases best captures the notion of efficiency?a. 	absolute fairnessb. 	equal distributionc. 	minimum wasted. 	equitable outcome8. When the government attempts to improve equality in an economy the result is oftena. 	an increase in overall output in the economy.b. 	additional government revenue since overall income will increase.c. 	a reduction in equality.d. 	a reduction in efficiency.9. When computing the opportunity cost of attending a basketball game you should includea. 	the price you pay for the ticket and the value of your time.b. 	the price you pay for the ticket, but not the value of your time.c. 	the value of your time, but not the price you pay for the ticket.d. 	neither the price of the ticket nor the value of your time.10. For most students, the largest single cost of a college education isa. 	the wages given up to attend school.b. 	tuition, fees, and books.c. 	room and board.d. 	transportation, parking, and entertainment.11. Which of the following is not an example of the opportunity cost of going to school?a. 	The money a student could have earned by working if he had not gone to college.b. 	The nap a student could have enjoyed if he had not attended class.c. 	The party a student could have enjoyed if he had not stayed in to study for his exam.d. 	The money a student spends on rent for his apartment while attending school.12. A rational decision maker takes an action only if thea. 	marginal benefit is less than the marginal cost.b. 	marginal benefit is greater than the marginal cost.c. 	average benefit is greater than the average cost.d. 	marginal benefit is greater than both the average cost and the marginal cost.13. Stephen is restoring a car and has already spent $4,000 on the restoration. He expects to be able to sell the car for $5800. Stephen discovers that he needs to do an additional $2,400 of work to make the car worth $5,800 to potential buyers. He could also sell the car now, without completing the additional work, for $3,800. What should he do? 	a. 	He should sell the car now for $3,800. 	b. 	He should keep the car since it wouldn’t be rational to spend $6,400 restoring a car and then sell it for only $5,800. 	c. 	He should complete the additional work and sell the car for $5,800. 	d. 	It does not matter which action he takes since the outcome will be the same either way.14. U.S. laws requiring that drivers wear seat belts have resulted in 	a. 	a reduction in both driver deaths and pedestrian deaths. 	b. 	fewer accidents and fewer deaths per accident. 	c. 	fewer driver deaths, fewer accidents and fewer pedestrian deaths. 	d. 	little change in the number of driver deaths, but more accidents and more pedestrian deaths.ANSWER:  	d15. Tim decides to spend four hours playing video games rather than attending his classes. His opportunity cost of playing games is 	a. 	the value of the knowledge he would have received had he attended his classes. 	b. 	the $50 he could have earned if he had worked at his job for those four hours. 	c. 	the value of his time playing video games minus the value of attending classes. 	d. 	nothing, since he valued playing video games more than attending classes.16. Trade between countries tends to 	a. 	reduce both competition and specialization. 	b. 	reduce competition and increase specialization. 	c. 	increase competition and reduce specialization. 	d. 	increase both competition and specialization.17. The "invisible hand" directs economic activity through 	a. 	advertising. 	b. 	prices. 	c. 	central planning. 	d. 	government regulations.18. The self-interest of the participants in an economy is guided into promoting general economic self-interest by 	a. 	the invisible hand. 	b. 	market power. 	c. 	government intervention. 	d. 	oikonomos.19. Public policies 	a. 	may be able to improve either economic efficiency or equality. 	b. 	may be able to improve economic efficiency but cannot improve equality. 	c. 	may be able to improve equality but cannot improve economic efficiency. 	d. 	cannot improve either equality or economic efficiency.20. The term market failure refers to 	a. 	a situation in which the market on its own fails to allocate resources efficiently. 	b. 	an unsuccessful advertising campaign which reduces demand for a product. 	c. 	a situation in which competition among firms becomes ruthless. 	d. 	a firm that is forced out of business because of losses.21. Causes of market failure include 	a. 	externalities and market power. 	b. 	market power and incorrect forecasts of consumer demand. 	c. 	externalities and foreign competition. 	d. 	incorrect forecasts of consumer demand and foreign competition.22. Laws that restrict the smoking of cigarettes in public places are examples of government intervention that is intended to reduce 	a. 	efficiency. 	b. 	equality. 	c. 	externalities. 	d. 	productivity.23. Which of the following is an example of an externality? 	a. 	A paper mill dumps waste into the river. 	b. 	A neighbor’s loud music disrupts sleep. 	c. 	A drunk driver causes an accident that injures another person. 	d. 	All of the above are correct.24. The price of diamonds is high, in part because the majority of the world’s diamonds are controlled by a single firm. This is an example of 	a. 	a market failure caused by an externality. 	b. 	a market failure caused by market power. 	c. 	a market failure caused by equality. 	d. 	There is no market failure in this case.25. Adam Smith's insight was that prices adjust to guide individual buyers and sellers to reach outcomes where, in many cases, 	a. 	opportunity cost is minimized for buyers. 	b. 	scarcity is reduced for society. 	c. 	well-being of society is maximized. 	d. 	opportunity cost of production is maximized.26. Productivity is defined as the 	a. 	amount of goods and services produced from each unit of labor input. 	b. 	number of workers required to produce a given amount of goods and services. 	c. 	amount of labor that can be saved by replacing workers with machines. 	d. 	actual amount of effort workers put into an hour of working time.27. To increase living standards, public policy should 	a. 	ensure that workers are well educated and have the necessary tools and technology. 	b. 	make unemployment benefits more generous. 	c. 	move workers into jobs directly from high school. 	d. 	ensure a greater degree of equality, taking all income-earners into account.28. In the short run, an increase in the money supply is likely to lead to 	a. 	lower unemployment and lower inflation. 	b. 	lower unemployment and higher inflation. 	c. 	higher unemployment and lower inflation. 	d. 	higher unemployment and higher inflation.29. Suppose the Federal Reserve announces that it will be making a change to a key interest rate to decrease the money supply. This is likely because the Federal Reserve is 	a. 	worried about inflation. 	b. 	worried about unemployment. 	c. 	hoping to increase the demand for goods and services. 	d. 	worried that the economy is growing too slowly.30. In the short run, which of the following is not correct? 	a. 	Increasing the money supply increases the demand for goods and services. 	b. 	Increasing the money supply encourages firms to hire more workers. 	c. 	Lowering the money supply leads to a higher level of unemployment. 	d. 	Policies that encourage higher employment will also induce a lower rate of inflation.